#Maximal structuring of process models

= Introduction =

This is the preview release of an extension to BPStruct to enable maximal structuring business process models. You can access to the preview prototype through the following link: [http://code.google.com/p/bpstruct/downloads/detail?name=mbpstruct.zip&can=2&q= mbpstruct]. Note: the prototype is not currently integrated with BPStruct, but we hope to complete the integration soon.

The prototype takes as input BPMN process models, as exported by Oryx-Editor [http://oryx-project.org/]. It repeats all the steps as BPStruct up to the generation of Ordering Relations Graph. Then instead of computing the Modular Decomposition Tree, the prototype synthesizes a process model. The goal of integrating this module to BPStruct is to restructure every part on the input model that can be restructured and the delegate the remaining parts to the showcased module to synthesize the parts that are inherently unstructured.

For testing purposes, the prototype is bundled with some sample process models. The models can be checked on line through the following links:

  * [http://oryx-project.org/oryx/editor;bpmn#/model/7817 Model 7817]
  * [http://oryx-project.org/oryx/editor;bpmn#/model/7818 Model 7818]
  * [http://oryx-project.org/oryx/editor;bpmn#/model/7819 Model 7819]
  * [http://oryx-project.org/oryx/editor;bpmn#/model/7820 Model 7820]
  * [http://oryx-project.org/oryx/editor;bpmn#/model/7821 Model 7821]
  * [http://oryx-project.org/oryx/editor;bpmn#/model/7822 Model 7822]
  * [http://oryx-project.org/oryx/editor;bpmn#/model/7823 Model 7823]
  * [http://oryx-project.org/oryx/editor;bpmn#/model/7824 Model 7824]
  * [http://oryx-project.org/oryx/editor;bpmn#/model/7825 Model 7825]
  * [http://oryx-project.org/oryx/editor;bpmn#/model/7826 Model 7826]
  * [http://oryx-project.org/oryx/editor;bpmn#/model/7827 Model 7827]
  * [http://oryx-project.org/oryx/editor;bpmn#/model/9214 Model 9214]
  * [http://oryx-project.org/oryx/editor;bpmn#/model/10052 Model 10052]
  * [http://oryx-project.org/oryx/editor;bpmn#/model/10120 Model 10120]
  * [http://oryx-project.org/oryx/editor;bpmn#/model/10794 Model 10794]
  * [http://oryx-project.org/oryx/editor;bpmn#/model/10824 Model 10824]
  * [http://oryx-project.org/oryx/editor;bpmn#/model/10825 Model 10825]
  * [http://oryx-project.org/oryx/editor;bpmn#/model/10826 Model 10826]
  * [http://oryx-project.org/oryx/editor;bpmn#/model/11336 Model 11336]
  * [http://oryx-project.org/oryx/editor;bpmn#/model/11337 Model 11337]
  * [http://oryx-project.org/oryx/editor;bpmn#/model/11346 Model 11346]


==Usage==

Unzip the contents of "MBPStruct.zip" in the directory of your preference. To run the prototype, execute the following command:

{{{
   java -jar mbpstruct.jar models/model7817.bpmn
}}}

The tool will dump a dot file with the resulting process model. Use Graphviz tools to visualize the output [http://www.graphviz.org]. Graphviz tools can also be used to generate some other file formats, such as Postscript, PDF, etc.